Seaweed absorbs up to 20 times more carbon per hectare than terrestrial forests — should 
governments subsidi se large -scale seaweed farming to fight climate change? 
 
Imagine if a single hectare of seaweed could absorb as much as 20 hectares of tropical rainforest, 
yet most of the world doesn’t even count this marine forest in the climate policy (Parley, 2022) . 
This oversight carries critical consequences as we ’re facing rising ocean temperatures, ocean 
acidification, and loss of marine biodiversity. Making use of seaweed’s immense carbon -
capturing potential through sustainable large -scale seaweed farming can provide us with a 
nature -based solution to mitigate climate ch ange and boost local economies. 
In Hong Kong, water pollution and eutrophication are placing strain on local fishery 
communities. Meanwhile, increasing urban carbon emissions contribute to climate change , 
causing extreme weather events via the greenhouse effect. Globally, climate change drives rising 
ocean water temperatures, acidification, about 50% of world’s coral reef have already been lost 
(NOAA, 2026) , the proportion of category 4 and 5 cyclones have increased (NOAA 
Climate.gov, 2021) , jeopardising livelihoods and food systems. So, what makes seaweed a viable 
solution? The growing demand for land for agriculture and infrastructure, along with the use of 
trees as raw materials for manufacturing is accelerating deforestation, which is currently 
occurring at a rate equivalent to 18 football fields per minute (The Straits T imes, 2025). 
Furthermore, trees take decades to sequester carbon. Our planet urgently needs strategies t o 
reduce emissions, protect marine life, and foster sustainable food systems; large -scale seaweed 
farming offers a promising solution. 
Government subsidies act as a catalyst to enable large -scale seaweed farming. These funds cover 
the costs which go into equipment and construction in appropriate coastal areas. Moreover, 
subsidising the costs of training fishers can also create more job opportunities. These funds help 
cover the costs of building ropes and platforms in appropriately constructed coastal areas, and 
subsidi se training for fishers, thereby creating more job opportunities. By covering startup costs, 
this makes sustainable seaweed farming more accessible and scalable. 
Seaweed farming offers multiple environmental benefits. Seaweed reduces eutrophication by 
absorbing excess nutrients like nitrogen and phosphorus from runoff, preventing algal blooms 
(World Resources Institute, n.d.) . This limits competition with other marine plants, reduces die -
offs from, and prevents bacteria from depleting oxygen from decomposition. Hence, this helps 
protect marine life and restore biodiversity. Seaweed absorbs carbon dioxide which acts as an 
acidic oxide that forms carbonic acid when di ssolved in water, helping reduce ocean 
acidification. Coral reefs support 25% of all marine species despite covering less than 1% of the 
ocean (UNEP, 2026) ; by lowering ocean acidity, it can lessen coral bleaching , while providing 
more habitats for fish and invertebrates, supporting more resilient marine ecosystems especially 
with climate stressors nowadays. More importantly, seaweed grows as fast as 2 feet per day (The 

Nature Conservancy, n.d.) , and is highly efficient at sequestering large amounts of carbon in its 
biomass via photosynthesis. 
Beyond environmental advantages, seaweed farming also offers significant economic and food 
security benefits. Harvested seaweed can be consumed directly to feed families, while providing 
a source of income. Additionally, seaweed’s rapid growth, efficient c arbon sequestration, and 
lack of lignin (Energy Biosciences Institute, n.d.) make it an excellent renewable biofuel, 
providing a sustainable energy source. 1 acre of seaweed can produce up to 1 0,000 gallons of 
biofuel per year (Ullah et al., 2014) . These activities create job opportunities for local fishers and 
coastal communities, helping strengthen the local economy. 
Large -scale seaweed farming will offer numerous benefits, from restoring marine life, to creating 
stable jobs for coastal communities. Families will be able to enjoy sea weed as a nutritious staple 
food; industries will be able to utilise the sustainable biofuels as a renewable energy source. 
Additionally, higher water quality, more vibrant marine life, and healthier coral reefs can boost 
tourism and consequentially attract greater investments. Remarkably, increased carbon 
sequestration contributes to climate change mitigation, benefitting our society, and future 
generations as a whole. 
To achieve this, policymakers should introduce subsidies, implement zoning policies, and other 
clear regulations to enable seaweed farming to occur at scale. Scientists must optimise 
cultivation techniques and fertiliser compositions to maximise yield. Mea nwhile, these sites can 
promote eco -friendly marine experiences for tourism and educational purposes to spread 
awareness. We, as individuals play a vital role by choosing seaweed -based products to boost 
demand to make this solution financially feasible. 
The ocean’s “forests” can fight climate change, restore marine life, and support coastal 
communities , but only if we act now. Policymakers, scientists, and individuals must seize this 
moment to support and choose seaweed today. We can harness this hidden resource into a 
solution for our future generations, and the on ly planet we call home. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

References 
Chung, M. V., Vecchi, G., & Sun, J. (2021, March 31). Climate change is probably increasing 
the intensity of tropical cyclones . NOAA Climate.gov. https://www.climate.gov/news -
features/understanding -climate/climate -change -probably -increasing -intensity -tropical -
cyclones 
Energy Biosciences Institute. (n.d.). Making gold out of seaweed . 
https://energybiosciencesinstitute.org/making -gold-out-of-seaweed/ 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. (2026, February 24). Restoring coral reefs . 
https://www.fisheries.noaa.gov/national/habitat -conservation/restoring -coral -reefs 
Parley. (2022, October 27). Blue carbon: What a scientist wants you to know about seaweed . 
https://parley.tv/updates/what -a-scientist -wants -you-to-know -about -seaweed 
The Nature Conservancy. (n.d.). Seaweed can be an important piece of the climate puzzle . 
https://www.nature.org/en -us/what -we-do/our -insights/perspectives/blue -carbon -
seaweed -nature -based -climate -solution/ 
The Straits Times. (2025, May 27). 18 football fields of tropical forest lost every minute in 2024, 
largely due to fires: Study . https://www.straitstimes.com/world/18 -football -fields -of-
tropical -forest -lost-every -minute -in-2024 -largely -due-to-fires-study 
Ullah, K., et al. (2014). Algal biomass as a global source of transport fuels: overview and 
development perspectives . Progress in Natural Science: Materials International, 24 (4), 
329–339. https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1002007114000860 
United Nations Environment Programme. (2026, February 24). Coral reefs . 
https://www.unep.org/topics/ocean -seas-and-coasts/blue -ecosystems/coral -reefs 

World Resources Institute. (n.d.). Eutrophication and hypoxia: Learn . 
https://www.wri.org/initiatives/eutrophication -and-hypoxia/learn