Tang Ka Ho 3036220371 A reﬂection on global warming as a lacto-ovo vegetarian Recalling the buzzing sound of mosquitoes and the unbearable heat, I woke up several times and had a hard time falling asleep last night. The weather is getting hotter, and global warming has forced me to switch my air conditioner on when it is only April — not even summer yet. Being a lacto-ovo vegetarian, I have always thought about how much I reduce my carbon footprint to save the Earth such as how many hours of air-conditioner is equivalent to the carbon I have saved. After enrolling in this course, I have gained a new perspective on my dietary habit and global warming (particularly after the lecture on food systems). Below is my reflection as a lacto-ovo vegetarian on global warming. "Why don't you eat meat?" Whenever I make new friends, they ask me that kind of questions. Growing up in a family that adopts a vegetarian diet and has a tradition of worship, I have been given the concepts that slaughtering is cruel and that karma applies to everything we do since I was small. Gradually, I became a lacto-ovo vegetarian as I grew up. Not wanting to explain too much to my friends, I often use animal welfare and environmental protection as my answers. However, there have been times when I felt uncertain about how I contribute to mitigating global warming through my dietary habit. Yet, this course has given me determination to maintain my dietary habit for environmental protection. Being able to contribute to mitigating global warming with every meal I eat, I should be proud of myself and confident that I have made the right dietary choice. But I did not always feel this way. Whenever I have lunch with my friends, I am probably the only person who orders a vegetarian dish or I get the same order every time, I feel like I am a bit “odd”. I have asked myself questions like how much carbon have I saved as I see almost no change in global warming, whether the carbon they produced outweighed the carbon I have saved as all my friends are eating their chicken or beef in front of me. "Cheese also contributes a lot to greenhouse gas emissions, stop deceiving yourself into thinking you are a god stopping global warming." Sometimes, my friends challenge me with words like that. Not wanting to debate, I often end the conversation with a smile and a nod. "Even though it is true, I am helping compensate for the carbon emissions from the beef you guys are eating." I have this answer in my mind, but I don't say it. I don't want to be rude and I respect my friends. 

"Let's try out the vegetarian restaurant on campus for lunch later." I felt I was understood when my friend invited me last week. I suddenly knew that I could affect my friends as well, and that I helped reduce carbon emissions of my friends. After the discussion in the food systems lecture, I realized I have many companions worldwide who are doing the same thing as me. Although most of us are not adopting a full vegetarian lifestyle, I feel understood. The effectiveness of adopting a vegetarian diet to reduce greenhouse gases was agreed upon in the lecture. To my point of view, it is impossible to restrict what people eat, but my actions are being valued. The lecture strengthened my determination to continue my dietary habit. Although my e\orts toward greenhouse gas reduction may be negligible, I feel proud that I have a much lower carbon footprint than most people around me. I should not stop doing something right just because most people are not doing it. I believe my actions will be valued, and I can even inﬂuence others to reduce their emissions. What I need from people is not for them to follow what I do or praise me for saving the planet. I just want them to stop being skeptical of me and stop thinking I am a 'troublemaker' or ‘special guy’ when I am the one trying to save the planet. In the future, I will continue my dietary habit and try to become a vegan — for personal reasons and to contribute even more to greenhouse gas reduction. From now, I am proud and conﬁdent of saying I am a vegetarian to my friends and colleagues.