The Climate Residency Pathway: 
Hong Kong's Answer to the Rising Tide 
Ioane Teitiota is a citizen of Kiribati, a sinking Pacific Island nation with an average 
elevation of only three meters. As sea temperatures rise, water in wells becomes undrinkable 
and crops die. In 2015, he applied for refugee status in New Zealand but was deported. In 
2020, the UN ru led that deporting climate refugees could violate their right to life. 
However, looking around the world, many cases like Ioane's are happening. Eighty -four 
percent of climate refugees are from vulnerable countries. The World Bank predicted that by 
2050, climate change could force 216 million people to move within their own c ountries, 
with 49 million in East Asia and the Pacific. Those who contribute the least suffer the most. 
Yet, facing this crisis, the international community is responding slowly. The 1951 UN 
Refugee Convention does not recognize climate change as a reason for moving to another 
region permanently. 
Luckily, New Zealand has opened a new page to this scenario. In 2017, the government 
proposed to create visas for climate refugees from Pacific islands, offering 100 visas for 
Tuvaluan and Kiribatian applicants. Learning from New Zealand, Hong Kong, as a w ealthy 
region, is responsible for carbon emissions and handling climate refugees. A "Climate 
Residency Pathway" should be implemented, granting climate refugees five years of legal 
status to live in Hong Kong. This could balance humanitarian protection and local needs. 
Specifically, under this scheme, applicants must come from UN -recognized vulnerable 
countries, such as Tuvalu, Kiribati, coastal Bangladesh, and the Sahel region, to avoid fraud. 
In the first two years, the refugees can work using protected status. In the third and fourth 
year, they can apply to continue staying. In the fifth year, if they have shown they have 

worked for protecting Hong Kong's climate for 1,200 hours or more — which means 20 
hours per month — then they can apply for permanent residency. New arrivals of climate 
refugees must work for Hong Kong's climate corps, planting mangroves, maintaining floo d 
barriers, and assisting in disaster training. Therefore, refugees become active contributors but 
not passive receivers. 
However, s ome might doubt whether this scheme is feasible, but it is feasible. New Zealand 
has already shown its viability in 2017. Plus, the UN is implementing credit projects led by 
climate refugees. They are not burdens. Instead, they could provide Hong Kong with valuable 
labor. More importantly, Hong Kong itself is facing its own aging problem. By 2041, the 
labor force will be reduced by 2.1 million. Climate refugees could fill the shortage of Hong 
Kong's labor and make contributions to the city's envir onmental resilience. The World Bank 
pointed out that, after careful management and monitoring, population shifts could let people 
escape from poverty and build a stable, climate -resilient life in a new environment. 
Then, for funding, Hong Kong should impose a climate levy on high -emission industries, 
such as power generation. It emitted 32.5 million tonnes of CO2 in 2022. Even a 1% tax 
could generate substantial revenue to support this climate refugee pathway. Plus, this can 
ensure those who contributed to the problems are responsible for the consequences. They 
cannot ignore the poor or powerless. 
Therefore, under this scheme, everyone will benefit. Climate refugees gain dignity and safety 
while Hong Kong gains thousands of new workers to address our aging population. The 
World Bank predicts 216 million could lose their homes by 2050. If we act now, Hong Kong 
could be a good example for other wealthy areas to learn from. The climate crisis will be seen 
and paid attention to. Last but not least, actions can be taken by us today. Follow a local 
climate advocacy organization such as Climate Action Hong Kong on Instagram. Share their 

posts and tell your friends: "I support Hong Kong accepting climate refugees. Do you?" 
When more people speak up, the government cannot ignore us. Every share, every post, every 
conversation is significant to policy changes. Hong Kong, as a wealthy city, m ust take 
responsibility. 
In summary, the sea level is rising. Kiribati and other regions are already sinking. Hong Kong 
is responsible for taking care of climate refugees. Building a Climate Residency Pathway can 
protect climate refugees and meet Hong Kong's own needs. 
 
Reference 
Reuters. (2017, November 16). New Zealand considers visa for climate “refugees” from 
Pacific islands. 
China Climate Change Info -Net. (2017, November 30). How New Zealand can make world -
leading climate refugee visas work. 
World Bank. (2021, September 13). Groundswell report: Climate change could force 216 
million people to migrate within their own countries by 2050. 
News24. (2021, September 13). Climate change could cause 216 million to migrate, World 
Bank warns. 
United Nations Human Rights Committee. (2020) . Views adopted by the Committee under 
article 5 (4) of the Optional Protocol, concerning communication No. 2728/2016 (Ioane 
Teitiota v. New Zealand) (CCPR/C/127/D/2728/2016). 
Communications Earth & Environment. (2025). Human mobility amplifies compound flood 
risks in coastal urban areas under climate change. PreventionWeb. 
https://preventionweb.net/ 
Overseas Network. (2017, November 10). New Zealand to launch “climate refugee” visa.