Community Composting as a Climate Solution 
Did you know that the meat chops and greens that you have not consumed 
completely for yesterday’s lunch and mix it with other waste in a trash bag which was 
transport to the landfills would emit methane in the air, causing serious global 
warming effect when the cumulative effect of more people and more time is taken 
into calculation. 
The food waste problem is becoming severe and alarming among Hong Kong 
and globe. Food waste which cannot decompose completely in landfills would 
produces methane that contributes to global warming (Wong & Yang, 2023). A large 
amount of greenhouse gases would be released from the process of food 
decomposition. 10 percent of Hong Kong's carbon emissions are coming from 
landfills used for waste disposal (Landfills set for closure by 2035 amid green push, 
2024) and food waste accounted for 29 per cent among three major classifications of 
munici pal solid waste in 2024 (Environmental Protection Department, The 
Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, 2025) . This 
relationship shows the influence of food waste made in the landfills on the greenhouse 
gases emissions. The situation in the global level looks the same. Food loss and waste 
represent 8-10% of annual global greenhouse gas emissions which leads to 
considerable biodiversity loss (United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change, 2024 ). These facts prove that we must develop a feasible solution to cope 
with this challenging puzzle. 
Based on the situation, an effective method is to promote a system for using 
kitchen waste composting in processing point , which could not only reduce the 
amount of food waste that is transported to landfills, but also provide benefits to the 
community garden by composting the kitchen waste into fertilizer . Inhabitants could 

complete garbage classification at the source and use the accumulated manure to 
fertilize the crops in the garden . The specific steps include establishing standardized 
compost bins in each community. The kitchen garbage could be put into these 
processing points for closed fermentation . After the biochemical reaction, the garbage 
could be transferred into useful fertilizer. Compared to the traditional landfills, this 
method makes good use of waste materials and gets benefits from it. Waste food will 
no longe r emit methane and carbon dioxide into the atmosphere limitlessly but act as 
the one step of the recycling process. This measure also implies weakened urban heat 
island effect as the building of gardens which increases the number of greenbelts in 
the city. This solution could be implemented in three steps: Firstly, establish 
processing points in each community and educate professional staff . Secondly, 
encourage residents to do garbage classification to divide the kitchen garbage by 
giving away some gift s like daily necessities. Finally, in the long term, the processing 
point could be equipped with in each unit such as office buildings and schools. These 
steps could make sure the project has a nice implementation. 
The system could not only decrease the greenhouse gas emissions observably, 
weaken the global warming issue , but also provide fertilizer to each resident. For the 
actions that could be finished immediately at the individual level , we could first try to 
do garbage classification at home after meals . This is to say, set two trash cans which 
are divided into kitchen garbage and other waste. Next, we could vote for the 
policymakers to enact relevant legislation to guarantee the implementation of the 
solution as on the beginning point, some citizens may tend to keep unchanged. Hence, 
the legislation is a strong and forceful measure to ensure implementation. 
In conclusion , this system could decrease the amount of garbage in the landfills 
that do harm to the climate and provide fertilizer to the participants, reaching a win -

win landscape for both the environment and human beings. 
 
Reference list 
1 Landfills set for closure by 2035 amid green push. (2024, April 6). The 
Standard . https://www.thestandard.com.hk/news/article/63331/Landfills -set-for-
closure -by-2035 -amid -green -push 
2 Environmental Protection Department, The Government of the Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region. (2025, December 22). Waste statistics for 2024 
published . The Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. 
https://www.info.gov.hk/gia/general/202512/22/P2025122200312.htm 
3 United Nations Climate Change. (2024, September 30). Food loss and waste 
account for 8 -10% of annual global greenhouse gas emissions; cost USD 1 trillion 
annually . United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. 
https://unfccc.int/news/food -loss-and-waste -account -for-8-10-of-annual -global -
greenhouse -gas-emissions -cost-usd-1-trillion 
4 Wong, D., & Yang, C. (2023, January 24). With Hong Kong running out of 
space for its trash, residents are doing more to reduce food waste. CNA . 
https://www.channelnewsasia.com/asia/hong -kong -landfills -running -out-space -
3217566