CCGL9065 : Final Reflective Essay on 
Building a Climate Change Solution 
Name: Chum Chi Yeung (UID: 3036393427) 
 

Report 
This report ’s main focus is on the topic “Fashion and climate change” . Despite fast fashion’s 
effects on the global climate has been studied frequently, not much people are aware of how 
pollution occur s at both ends of unwanted clothings’ lifecycles. I hope to show you perspectives 
on the effect of fast fashion on climate change, use real -life stories to display an 
underconcerned climate problem, and bring up relevant and practical solutions , and connect 
them into a combined narrative. 
According to various sources, fast fashion is a growing industry with a ever -growing market 
size – the fashion industry reached $2.4 trillion by 2019, and employs over 75 million 
(Villemain , 2019 ) – a lot of people’s livelihood depend on it. About industrial impacts, we 
should know that its annual water consumption is 93 billion cubic meters – 4.6 million times 
the annual average of showering ( HKWSD, 2011). Moreov er, it accounts for around 2 to 10 
percent of global emission – more than that of av iation and shipping industry combined 
(Villemain, 2019 ). You may think that travelling by ships or aeroplanes emit more pollutants 
than producing the shirt you wear on ; now is a chance to think again – hope the data convinces 
you otherwise. 
The pollutions caused by fashion industry is sort of overdocumented – the story below is about 
how clothes pollute even when they are donated. 
Africa is considered as a “landfill site” for unwanted textiles. However, in 2020, a documentary 
filmed in Africa (European Environmental Bureau, 2020) , ended up subvert ing expectations . 
You may assume that donating unwanted textiles to poor nations can provide suffecient 
clothing to the needy , but the reality is the opposite: African interviewees stated that the 
enormous amount of imports “killed” the local textile industry, and the unwanted textiles were 
dumped in landfills which polluted local rivers and caused floods . This further cause more 
water -based adverse health effects . Elsewhere, storms cause the massive clothing landfill in 
Ghana to flood sewers, and more worse, pollute the ocean (Besser, 2021). 
Crossing the Atlantic, a similar situation occurs in the Atacama Desert, Chile . Ever since the 
country open ed up its borders decades ago, tonnes of clothes have flood ed the local market. 
After sorting, unwanted clothes are dumped in the open desert, and (occasionally) set on fire. 
Toxic smoke are released which causes multitudes of respiratory diseases for locals ( Barlett, 
2024). 

You think you are less guilty when you put your unwanted wears in a bin because you thought 
you are “helping the needy” . This end up polluting their water sources , forcing them to breath 
in polluting gases, and cause them to loose their homes due to flooding. Is it surprised that your 
act causes more problems to them? If you acknowledge the problem, would you try to seek 
better alternatives to fast fashion ? 
It is kinda pointless to argue about who is responsible for the damages caused by fashion 
industries – everyone is equally responsible , as shown by the example below. You purchase d a 
new shirt online because a pop star wears it, the company accumulate d orders and commision ed 
a factory in South Asia to manufacture them, then the factory leaders decide d to have the 
wastewater dumped in the nearby river, and when a local man drink ed from it, he became ill 
due to toxification. Solutions are sought by going to the top of the problem itself instead of 
fixating on accusations , yet, “consumer responsibilities” remain a s the first-step in fixing the 
overall issue. 
With rising awareness, “slow fashion” is presented as a foremost alternative , defined as a 
“different approach in which designers, buyers, retailers, and consumers are more aware of the 
impacts of products on workers, communities, and ecosystems” (Vito, 2022). Consumers like 
us should try thinking differently in adapting “slow fashion” . Obviously, the most practical 
method is to shop less – as less demand causes less supply , and less impacts . Despite second -
hand clothing may be seen as unappealing, this has changed with time – especially as pop stars 
like A. Hathaway and O. Rodrigo (Igoe, 2025) have been advocat ors of it. Choosing second -
hand clothing is a further step in preventing textiles going to waste . It benefits both your wallet 
and the environement . 
A different side of fashion industry’s damages on the global climate is shown. The pollution 
caused by textile disposal are as impactful as that cause d by manufacturing. As customers, we 
bear significant responsibility o n fashion pollution , and the problem can only be solved through 
increased awareness and collective work on reducing demands and supplies. 
 

Sources 
European Environmental Bureau (2020). Textile Mountain – the hidden burden of our fashion 
waste. Link: https://youtu.be/UC4oFmX8tHw?si=hMM9lOI7sg6 -fbnn 
Igoe, K.J. (2025). Celebrities who are obsessed with Thrifting . Marie Claire. Link: 
https://www.marieclaire.com/celebrity/thrifting -celebrities/ 
Water Service Department (2011). Domestic Water Consumption Survey Key Survey 
Findings . Link: https://www.wsd.gov.hk/filemanager/en/content_1472/factsheet_e_2011.pdf 
Vito, F. (2022). Explainer: What Is Slow Fashion, and How Can You Join the Movement? 
Earth.Org. Link: https://earth.org/fast -fashions -detrimental -effect -on-the-environment/ 
Barlett, J. (2024). Chile’ s Atacama Desert has become a fast fashion dumping ground. 
National Geographic. Link: https://www.nationalgeographic.com/environment/article/chile -
fashion -pollution 
Besser, L. (2021). Dead White Man’ s Clothes: How Fast Fashion is turning parts of Ghana 
into toxic Landfill . Australian Broadcasting Company. Link: 
https://www.abc.net.au/news/2021 -08-12/fast -fashion -turning -parts -ghana -into-toxic -
landfill/100358702 
Villemain, C. (2019). UN launches drive to highlight environmental cost of staying 
fashionable . UN News. Link: 
https://news.un.org/en/story/2019/03/1035161?_gl=1*dx32xv*_ga*NDEwNjIwOTAxLjE3M
zczNzQ0NTQ.*_ga_TK9BQL5X7Z*MTczOTgwNDI3NC40LjEuMTczOTgwNDM2NS4wL
jAuMA 
Villemain, C. (2019). UN Alliance For Sustainable Fashion addresses damage of ‘fast 
fashion’ . UN Environmental Programme. Link: https://www.unep.org/news -and-stories/press -
release/un -alliance -sustainable -fashion -addresses -damage -fast-fashion