In 2020, a family in Bangladesh, was forced to leave their livelihoods as farmers, and rent a small 
place in Khulna. One of the farmers’ names is Hossain. “I’m leaving my father’s address forever,” 
he says. “All my relatives including my four brothers have lived here for several decades. Frequent 
natural disasters prevented us from living in our own homes. The other brothers left long ago. I 
was the last one. ” (Guardian News and Media , 2020). 
Natural disasters have become increasingly frequent in the past decade, and the power of it has 
been going up. In Hong Kong, the 5 worst typhoons in Hong Kong history happened within the 
span of 9 years. Let’s just take Super Typhoon Ragasa 2025 as an exam ple. 22 flooding cases were 
reported across Hong Kong, including in the unfortunately typhoon -susceptible Heng Fa Chuen 
and the Fullerton Ocean Park Hotel, which went viral for a clip that showed tidal waves crashing 
through its glass doors and flooding th e entire hotel lobby. (Time Out Hong Kong, 2025). We were 
lucky that these typhoons did not cause catastrophic events like in Bangladesh. Hong Kong also 
has plenty of low -lying areas, do we really want it to become like Bangladesh one day and we will 
be forced to move to away from our homes? 
If we look at natural disasters from a bigger picture, it is caused by increasing global temperature , 
and it seems that c oncern is growing that temperature rises above 1.5°C are beginning to be seen 
as inevitable, or even acceptable, to powerful members of the global community. Rises above 
1.5°C increase the chance of reaching tipping points in natural systems that could lock the world 
into an acutely unstable state. (Atwoli et. al, 2021) My solution to this involves cooperation 
between the government, the public, and people from the vehicle sector. Specifically for Hong 
Kong, since a lot of carbon emissions come from vehicle emissions (20% of carbon emissions in 
Hong Kong), the government should penalize the public more for buying traditional vehicles and 
provide more subsidies to electric vehicles. In parallel to that, the government could start providing 

electric vehicle charging spaces to all carparks in Hong Kong, so that it is more accessible and 
more convenient to use electric vehicles. This is a major step to reducing carbon emissions by 
reducing the proportion of traditional vehicles on Hong Kong roads. Using China as an example, 
an electric vehicle technological innovation research was carried out. For many years, exploration 
and practice of the scientists has proved that the electric vehicle system can be improved 
significantly . Key areas were targe ted to reduce GHG emission by the strengthening of institutional, 
legal, economic, and technological instruments and hence to achieve energy conservation, energy 
structure optimization as well as ecological improvement. (Liu, R., Li, M. H., & Zhang, H. N. 
2017) . If you walk in the streets of China nowadays, you see electric vehicles everywhere on the 
road, proving that this solution is feasible. Not only in China, electric vehicles have also become 
a trend and more people are buying it on a global basis. Hong Ko ng is behind in development of 
electric vehicles compared to the globe. To implement this solution, the government should get 
sufficient consultation from the public, then cooperate with electric vehicle companies to provide 
more electric vehicles, and imp rove the accessibility to electric vehicle charging facilities in the 
city. By improving electric vehicles’ supply and its accessibility, the public would be more 
incentivized to buy these types of vehicles along with respective taxes and subsidies mention ed 
earlier. 
The benefits of this solution are simple and long -term. The government gets to make one step to 
combat climate change by reducing carbon emissions and catch up with the globe in technological 
development. The public would be able to contribute to mitigating global temperature increasing 
by using electric vehicles instead of traditional ones and reducing their overall expenditure on 
transport as fuel is not needed for electric vehicles. What are you waiting for? Go ahead and buy 
an electric vehicle now and c ontribute to mitigating climate change! 

To sum it all up, do you want Hong Kong to suffer the same fate as Bangladesh in 50 years? If 
not, then go ahead and buy an electric vehicle to replace your traditional vehicle, contribute to 
reducing carbon emissions. Every small step of every one of you contributes to one big step to 
deal with climate change and make these natural disasters less disastrous to our daily lives! 
(750 words) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Citations: 
Guardian News and Media. (2020, December 16). “it’ s over for us”: How extreme weather is 
emptying Bangladesh’ s villages . The Guardian. https://www.theguardian.com/global -
development/2020/dec/16/how -floods -are-emptying -bangladesh -villages 
Leung, J., Cheung, C., & Time Out Hong Kong. (2025, September 25). The 15 worst typhoons in 
Hong Kong history . Time Out Hong Kong. https://www.timeout.com/hong -kong/things -to-
do/hong -kongs -worst -typhoons 
Atwoli, L., Baqui, A. H., Benfield, T., Bosurgi, R., Godlee, F., Hancocks, S., Horton, R., 
Laybourn -Langton, L., Monteiro, C. A., Norman, I., Patrick, K., Praities, N., Olde Rikkert, M. G. 
M., Rubin, E. J., Sahni, P., Smith, R., Talley, N., Turale, S., & V ázquez, D. (2021). Call for 
Emergency Action to Limit Global Temperature Increases, Restore Biodiversity, and Protect 
Health: Wealthy Nations Must Do Much More, Much Faster. Neurology , 97(14), 658 –660. 
https://doi.org/10.1212/WNL.0000000000012691 
Liu, R., Li, M. H., & Zhang, H. N. (2017). Opportunities and Challenges of Electric Vehicles 
Development in Mitigating Climate Change in China. IOP Conference Series. Earth and 
Environmental Science , 86(1), 12010. https://doi.org/10.1088/1755 -1315/86/1/012010