CCGL 9065 
Final Portfolio Essay 
Yim Tsz Chun Angelo 
UID: 3036515726 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

In September 2023, residents of Wong Tai Sin in Hong Kong were left speechless after a 
proclaimed “once -in-500-years” storm transformed not only their MTR station, but also their 
main roads and malls into rivers. However, as time passed, these extreme weat her phenomena 
only became increasingly frequent. 
 
As a coastal city, Hong Kong is seeing typhoon warning signals appear with increasing 
frequency, all thanks to climate change. Increasing temperatures and sea levels from melting 
ice across the globe allow more storms to develop, while also spreading more warm air flow 
towards different parts of the world. Icelanders are now facing mosquitoes, a species of insect 
that has not been able to inhabit Iceland until now, thanks to record -breaking heat from warm 
airflows. The temperature in Iceland last year recor ded a 1.1°C increase from the averages 
from 1991 to 2020, the highest it has ever been. 
 
To combat climate change, one first requires an understanding of climate change. According 
to a study done by Which? and London Economics on UK retailers (Team, 2025), 88% of 
products with green descriptions in the market provided no justification or conte xt, along 
with nearly 65% having unclear and vague green claims. These claims not only give 
misinformation to consumers, but also utilise the desire for sustainable shopping among the 
public to gain more profits. Governments should enforce regulations on a dvertising 
campaigns, including climate -change -related elements, to banish greenwashing, companies 
portraying a false image of environmental friendliness, in marketing and avoid climate 
change misinformation. 
 

Upon understanding the urgency of climate change, possibly destroying our home, are you 
going to take action immediately, or wait it out and watch as the Earth plummets into chaos? 
Priority to deal with climate change should be emphasised by everyone to sa ve our home. 
Governments should reallocate funds and plans towards climate -proofing impact -prone areas, 
as well as research and development of technologies to help alleviate climate change. 
Flooding -prone areas can be researched, utilising natural features , such as trees, to reduce the 
impact of flooding. Cities facing constant high temperatures can also be climate -proofed 
using natural features by changing the urban landscape and natural features. Research and 
development can also be oriented on geoenginee ring projects, to help combat the phenomena 
of climate change, and protect the livelihoods of the public, with ongoing examples of 
Aerogel and Carbon Dioxide Removal Methods. 
 
Everyone needs to take part, not just the government. Industries, particularly food and 
fashion, should reshape to minimise waste. Clothing manufacturers should focus on 
environmentally friendly qualit ies and lower output to control the amount of waste from 
clothes each year. Restaurants should charge extra for food waste, and recycle them into 
fertilisers for farming. Most importantly, each individual should revise their daily routines 
into more sustainable habits. Avoid throwing wearable clothes away; rec ycle them into mops 
or donate them to those in need. Leftovers can be kept and eaten the next day. Stand up to any 
injustice by protesting and reporting the trouble -makers, whether its firms exceeding their 
quotas for pollution when producing, or governments for ignoring and neglecting climate 
change rules or targets. Only by acting as one can we effectively combat climate change. 
Combating climate change would make everyone’s livelihoods better. As the general public, 
cities would not constantly face extreme and disruptive weather, which would not happen as 

often, and pollution, guaranteeing safety. The Global Environment Outlook, Seventh Edition 
(GEO -7), report on December 9, 2025 (Environment, 2025), predicts that such climate -
change combating measures would avert 9 million premature deaths by 20250. From t he 
perspective of the government, the economy would boost , with fewer disruptions from 
extreme weather. A more comfortable city allows higher productivity in infrastructure 
building, and attracts more tourists to visit. The GEO -7 predicts that under lowere d climate 
risk, macroeconomic benefits will surge starting in 2050 until 2070 by reaching USD 20 
trillion per year. From the perspective of the ecological cycle, the extinction of animals due to 
a changing climate would be alleviated . Forests, coral reefs, and wetlands will allow the 
coexistence of different animals, allowing survival for many species. 
 
If alleviating climate change helps all of us, why don’t we pursue it? Is it only when climate 
change becomes too severe that we will then understand the need to change our actions? 
Earth gave our civilisation resources to expand and develop; it’s our resp onsibility to keep 
Earth healthy. If residents of Hong Kong from the year 2100, who are constantly facing 
typhoons and heat strokes, are now looking at your actions, what would you do? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

References 
AFP. (2025, October 22). Mosquitoes Have Started Appearing in One of The Last Places on 
Earth Without Them . ScienceAlert. https://www.sciencealert.com/mosquitoes -have -started -
appearing -in-one-of-the-last-places -on-earth -without -them 
Environment, U. (2025, December 9). Global Environment Outlook 7 . UNEP - UN 
Environment Programme. https://www.unep.org/resources/global -environment -outlook -7 
IIYAMA, M. (2025, December 11). 1399. Socio -Economic Impact of Investing in Planetary 
Health | 国際農研 . Japan International Research Center for Agricultural Sciences | JIRCAS. 
https://www.jircas.go.jp/en/program/proc/blog/20251212 
Leader agrees on need for warning system review for storm -battered Hong Kong . (2023, 
September 8). South China Morning Post. https://www.scmp.com/news/hong -kong/health -
environment/article/3233842/hong -kong -floods -officials -scramble -address -aftermath -chaos -
brought -extreme -rain-amid -mounting 
Liam Gilliver. (2026, February 18). Will climate change really turn Iceland into “one giant 
glacier”? Euronews; euronews.com. https://www.euronews.com/2026/02/18/iceland -saw-
record -temperatures -last-year-so-why-are-scientists -predicting -a-deep -freeze 
Team, P. (2025, July). Which? raises alarm over “greenwashing” risks as it finds hundreds of 
products using vague and unsubstantiated environmental claims . Which? 
https://www.which.co.uk/policy -and-insight/article/which -raises -alarm -over-greenwashing -
risks -as-it-finds -hundreds -of-products -using -vague -and-unsubstantiated -environmental -
claims -a0Fwg3w242Zd